//requirements
Project title, with the specification that this is a CS 426 Senior Project in Computer Science, Spring 2025, at UNR, CSE Department
Team number, name (if you decide to use one) & team member(s)
Instructors & external advisor(s) with their affiliation(s)
Short project description (recommended size: between 200 and 400 words)
Project related resources:
    Problem domain book
    Websites useful/related to your project
    Technical reports, conference papers, and/or journal articles
    News and other information pertaining to your project topic or components (e.g., technology, hardware, etc.)

Shale

CS 426 Senior Project
University of Nevada, Reno
Computer Science and Engineering
Spring 2026

Group #29
Christopher Maldonado
Hunter Bickel
Justin Juera
Jennifer Hogueison

Dr. Dave Feil-Seifer
Dr. Vinh Le
Stosh Peterson
Richie White
Shawn Treants - College of Southern Nevada

Shale is a 2D search-action platformer built in the Godot Engine, where you play as a girl with mysterious cloning powers named Shale.
Shale lives in the Chasm, a cavern where monsters have started showing up as the air gets colder and colder, disrupting life in the
fragile society that has developed since humanity reached the stars and all but forgot about their species' cradle.

Explore, gather equipment, solve puzzles, and find out who is causing this mysterious phenomenon and why.

Even if Shale can't handle something alone, she's never alone when she's with her clone. The clone mirrors her movements, 
and even the act of splitting into two can provide some benefits. Place a clone on a switch to keep it open,
split mid-jump for extra jump height, double your firepower against enemies, and explore multiple areas simultaneously.

Use tools you find in the labyrinth to help with solving puzzles. 
The Heart of Siracus can freeze enemies in place, letting you create your own platforms.
The Missile Launcher launches characters that its missiles hit, including yourself or your clone.

Find logbooks and read the history of the Chasm, the Aether lingering in its air, and the doomed world surrounding it.
Even in a bleak world, the mistakes of the past need not be the future.

Related resources:
Godot Engine. https://godotengine.org
A free and open source 2D and 3D general purpose game engine that uses a node-based approach and can be programmed in C#,
its proprietary Python-like scripting language GDScript, or extended to use any other programming language.

S. Rogers, "Level Up! The Guide to Great Video Game Design" (3rd ed.), New York, NY, USA: Wiley, 2024
Purchasable on Amazon here: https://www.amazon.com/Level-Guide-Great-Video-Design/dp/1394298765
A game design textbook that covers video game history, roles in game development and publishing, and developing a game
from ideas and design paperwork to specific aspects like creating compelling characters, narrative techniques, camera
viewports and techniques, typical control layouts, UI elements, level design, combat encounter and gameplay design, 
multiplayer management, game music, monetization, and publishing.

J. Schell, "The Art of Game Design: A Book of Lenses" (3rd ed.) Pittsburgh, PA, USA: CRC Press, 2019
Purchasable on Amazon here: https://www.amazon.com/Art-Game-Design-Lenses-Third/dp/1138632058
A game design textbook that walks through a series of game design questions and different lenses to view them through. 
The book encourages module design and thinking as well as interactive design and testing. Explores storytelling as a core 
design element, urging designers to craft worlds that evoke wonder and meaning.

G. Smith, J. Carette. “Design foundations for Emotional Game Characters”, Eludamos: Journal for Computer Game Culture, 
vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 109-140, April 2020, doi:10.7557/23.6175
An article that covers character depth in non-player characters and how the perceived realism and depth of game narratives 
and stories can be improved through exploring advances in simulating emotional responses and emotional intelligence through a 
form of “emotion engine” as part of the artificial intelligence employed in non-player characters, including personality, 
biases, goals, and values acting as values for allowing non-player characters to have agency.

J.-N. Thon, “Playing with Fear: The Aesthetics of Horror in Recent Indie Games”, Eludamos: Journal for Computer Game Culture, 
vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 197-231, April 2020, doi:10.7557/23.6179
An article that covers the styling of independently-developed and published video games that use a variety of deliberate audiovisual, 
ludic, and narrative aesthetics to invoke different emotions typical to the horror story genre in video games, and the differences 
between the “indie aesthetic” in video games as opposed to the “retro aesthetic”.

P. Martin. “Ambivalence and Recursion in Castlevania: Symphony of the Night”, Eludamos: Journal for Computer Game Culture, 
vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 71-90, July 2011, doi:10.7557/23.6128
An article that covers recursion using Castlevania: Symphony of the Night as a means of invoking the feeling of ambivalence within 
the player and the player character avatar Alucard. It explores the duality of Alucard’s character, the labyrinths of the game and 
recursive nature of exploring labyrinths in the the search-action game genre, and how this emphasizes this feeling of ambivalence.

